thank you
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Rich Rines an initial contributor
at Cordell Cordell is comprised of a
global group of developers building a
Bitcoin hash powered and evm compatible
blockchain with the goal to onboard the
next 1 billion users the core mainnet
launched in early 2023 and is also
ranked among the largest smart contract
interactions on the ethereum network in
this conversation rich and I discussed
building the foundations for a community
simplifying the onboarding process to
bring in one billion users how the
Satoshi plus consensus protocol was
designed to favor decentralization the
multi-chain thesis and interoperability
core Dow's call for developers and much
more just a reminder nothing said on
this podcast is a solicitation to buy or
sell any tokens that nothing should be
taken as Financial advice and that the
host or guests May hold tokens discussed
in any given episode with that said I
really enjoyed chatting with Rich and I
hope you enjoy the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Rich Ryan's a contributor for the Cordo
initial contributor and cordau is a
Bitcoin hash powered and evm compatible
blockchain with the ambitious goal to
onboard the next billion users how are
you doing today Rich I'm doing great
thanks for having me excited chat yeah
very excited to chat was having a good
time kind of getting to know you before
we hit the record button and so kind of
just to jump into things you are a proud
Boston College alumni that is correct so
I have to know is Bobby Orr the best
hockey player that ever existed
I definitely was not expecting this I
don't know when I was looking I was
actually big Patrick Wah fan just out of
nowhere but I love like the early like
Avalanche days I don't know maybe it was
like the early NHL N64 games or
something but that was always a deep
place in my heart but being a Bostonian
I'll give you the Bobby Orr thing I'm um
from Miami and so Die Hard Miami
Dolphins fan unfortunately so all I have
is 1972 which was kind of the breakout
year for Bobby Orr I had a good buddy
from Mansfield kind of put me onto how
great the Bruins were back then and what
Fabio was all about so always fun to
kind of throw that into conversations
whenever I can so proud Bostonian you
went to Boston College and you kind of
got your start and your career in the
solar energy sector and then went on a
developer Journey so before we get to
your time at coinbase can you just kind
of give us like what your Arc was yeah
it's really great question Wow you went
all the way back yeah so I think the
Common Thread there has been
entrepreneurship so I got you know into
founding and building companies back
when I was really young like 17 18 years
old taught myself how to become a
developer because no one else would
build my projects as the real reason and
you know I think I made my first dollar
on the internet building you know iOS
apps and that sort of thing to like pay
for study abroad but it's been a long
Arc but that was kind of the common
theme was you know technology and
Entrepreneurship all the way through and
then yeah I definitely found my way over
to coinbase ran money movements
engineering there for three and a half
years that was quite an experience from
bull market to Bear Market all that sort
of fun in between and then now I'm at
Cordell I've been for roughly two years
kind of helping to build out that
organization cool yeah so I kind of want
to just provide a little bit of context
for the rest of the conversation by
digging into a little bit of your time
at coinbase so can you just share what
years you were there that kind of paints
a picture for what the industry was like
and can you share maybe broad base like
what money movements necessarily was
were you dealing with like ACH or were
you dealing with like the actual
blockchain networks themselves we're
great question so I joined in 2019 which
was like the tail end of that bear
Market which was really an interesting
time at coinbase because it was very
different than the coinbase people know
now which is you know pure up and to the
right and the direct public list like
all that sort of thing it was like a
really challenging time because I think
the 2018 cycle was just coming out after
the Ico Mania and everything else and
people are wondering like is this thing
really gonna work not only like coinbase
to business but just like as an industry
like kind of what the through line of
crypto will be will be a flash in the
pan or really be like this kind of game
changing technology I think now we have
our answer but I think it was a lot less
clear at that point and when I joined as
part of that there was a lot of
opportunities for people to step up and
to take on leadership roles in areas
that weren't necessarily like kind of
the most sexy pieces of the organization
and one of that was the platform and the
platform particularly like the money
movements piece is all the money on and
off platform so that's interact with the
crypto networks and things on one side
that's ACH on the other side and that's
also hand handling all the on platform
buy sell trade Etc so it's a really
multi-faceted experience and there's a
lot of hard things that go behind the
scenes of operating in exchange of
coinbase's scale like we expect these
things when we put money in or whatever
we expect it just to get to the account
essentially nearly instantaneously but
there's so many thousands of lines of
code that powers that makes that a
reliable experience on one side just be
able to get the money on but then also
getting the money off and interacting
with the blockchains is also very
non-trivial because each blockchain has
its own quarks and its own unique pieces
that you have to deal with and depending
on the blockchain some are more reliable
than others I think is the you know the
political way to put that and some of
those intricacies like there's a lot of
risk that's involved right like if
blockchains have reorgs and you're not
handling these sorts of things or if you
have double credits There's real money
on the line and that's kind of the
unsung hero of a lot of these
centralized exchanges which again are
commonly vilified rightfully so in some
cases in other cases they're not there's
a lot of work to be able to on board you
know the amount of people that they've
done and again there's been lots of bad
and good that's happened in that space
But it's a really tough task and it was
really awesome to kind of cut my teeth
there yeah that's really cool can you
just give us like a scale for the types
of funds that were under your umbrella
of product management like I know
coinbase is probably the most popular
Exchange in the US but maybe I don't
know for some reason our International
audience doesn't understand the sheer
amount of funds that are going in and
out of the centralized exchange so can
you just like slap us with what that
number was yeah so I think if you
include the on platform like the
existing trading and that sort of stuff
you get somewhere around like a trillion
dollars a year at Peak I mean like when
you go to peakship Mania and things of
that nature like the sheer scale is wild
like you get to you know hundreds of
thousands of requests per minute to be
able to put in like trade orders not
just like web requests the web requests
you get to tens of millions and that
sort of thing but very hard to be able
to do that reliably and consistently and
limited amount rest throughout the
entire process I'm from the crypto class
of 2017 when coinbase would regularly
shut down whenever a China flood came
out or Bitcoin was partnering with
another government or some crazy thing
that would send the market mooning back
then that's really interesting and I
kind of want to keep the coinbase
relationship in mind for our listeners
as we move forward because that's going
to be a really cool tangent to pull on
why you left a centralized Behemoth to
go towards the decentralized industry
but maybe before we get to that point of
the conversation can you just give us a
little bit of context as to when the
first time you heard about crypto was
was it bitcoin's white paper was it the
eve Dao hack what do you first remember
hearing about this brand new digital
asset class what kind of like time frame
was that yeah so I believe it was
mid-2010 actually it depends on when I
had the Directed Reading there's two of
us in the direct reading class but we
actually had a professor that was
teaching us it was just a few of the
students it was like essentially a way
to hack around taking real class you
would have a professor like kind of go
really deep with you on a specific
subject and I think that we were really
interested on was web security and just
Security in general is kind of what it
got brought into and he would give us
these amazing readings on these
different things and one of the readings
was the Bitcoin white paper and I
remember reading it and I had no idea
what was going on like various people at
the industry have said like the moment
they read the white paper like
everything made total sense to them I
admittedly was not one of those people
initially and I didn't really understand
it but he had given us the analysis from
a very like academic perspective of like
why it's interesting Byzantine fault
tolerance like kind of all that sort of
thing and one of the other people like
immediately bought some Bitcoin because
they kind of got it and of course I
didn't I don't think for me it really
clicked until I started to understand
ethereum which was around 2016. all of a
sudden everything started to click not
just the ethereum like digital oil at
that point or whatever but then also
Bitcoin clicked with kind of the store
value thesis and digital gold but that
was kind of the arc and yeah I wish I
could go back to my former self and be
like just start here versus you know
that's five years in between yeah I know
all too well what you're talking about
the first time that kind of Bitcoin
really soaked into my brain was probably
quarter four 2013 and I used the excuse
for not learning more not speculatively
investing more because I was a broke
grad student and four and a half years
later all I wanted to do was go full
time into this space so I share a very
similar experience with you I don't
think that that's unique to both of us
really so when you had your aha moment
in 2016 ish you were still kind of on
your own entrepreneurial journey through
your own career path and you didn't end
up at coinbase for another three years
so what was that three-year period like
were you trying to get your businesses
off the ground and just looking into
this crypto stuff on the side were you
actively trying to get involved with
other blockchain oriented projects on
the side what was that in between period
between your aha moment and then when
you ended up at coinbase totally there's
definitely a learning piece and I've
always been kind of like a more longer
term first principles type person where
it's like could you see yourself doing
this for the rest of your career or like
for 10 years and the moment that you get
off that path you're probably misaligned
and you need to ask yourself that
question every so often to make sure
that you're still kind of headed towards
your North Star at that point I wasn't
like fully convinced I really thought
you know since other businesses where I
was going to spend the majority of my
time in between there I actually found
myself at a company called Omni and as
part of omni they actually their lead
investor was Ripple and I actually got
very involved with like bringing Ripple
into their platform it was a really cool
idea that you'd have like this streaming
payment Marketplace of goods and storage
and as part of that I also was partially
like a full-time crypto Trader with some
of the funds that were invested and that
was wildly stressful like the stress and
there's like full-time crypto trading
stress and that company actually got
acquired by AI coinbase so that is
actually kind of how I found myself
there and it was part of like coinbase
folklore at this point but they didn't
actually know what to do with me because
they were like well you could be a
Trader for us or you could you know kind
of go back to engineering like what do
you want to do and they were like we've
never really seen a case like you
because that's a really weird vibe and I
was like no engineer is where I want to
be like for the long term I don't need
to lose you know my remaining hair
that's awesome so you got Aqua hired by
coinbase I guess this is a tangent but
that's a really interesting thing you
just brought up so we're talking about
integrating Ripple 2016 17 18 19 ish and
today we have new Integrations with
banks we have these ETFs that are being
proposed the rails to connect the crypto
and traditional Financial rails are
being built I guess you could call them
Bridges so what are the differences
between the times when you were
integrating Ripple into Omni and today
four to six years later how is it wildly
different different from back then so I
definitely want a caveat that there's
way more work to be done than where we
are today but we're still like worlds
worlds closer than we were and I think
like even going back to some of the
product design sessions and that sort of
thing when you thought about onboarding
to be able to get someone to even be
able to like rent a scooter or something
like that you know using Ripple okay
well now you have to download like some
wallet or you have to send xrp to like
some random address like there was a lot
of friction there it was very unusual
consumer behavior and I remember I mean
one of the nice Parts about Ripple is it
settles incredibly fast there were some
pieces that made for like a pretty
decent user experience as part of it but
it was still pretty clunky and you have
to download other apps to use another
app like that's a lot of friction as
part of the process and that was
definitely one of the issues was like
actually getting it into a spot where
you could get you know millions or you
know hundreds millions of people using
it and when I think today you've seen so
many advances like one of the things I'm
most bullish on is account abstraction
they count down abstraction is so
interesting for so many ways and even if
you just like take the most minor part
which is just to be able to pay gas fees
for users like and obviously there's all
these other benefits like log in with
some other oauth provider and that sort
of stuff but just that piece alone is
huge customers are not used to paying
for things up front as part of whatever
they're you know it's just not how
anything works and if you have to go
acquire things to then use a product
like all those barriers are like slowly
getting broken down and again there's a
lot of work to be done but we're worlds
farther and I think I'm watching the
wallet space you know very closely
because I think that there's so much
Evolution that'll happen there over the
next nine to 18 months yeah I agree so
not a huge proportion but some of our
listeners are kind of like Eli five type
folks so you mentioned account
abstraction so like if my mom is
listening to this episode can you say
why that's so important because I always
like to say that the internet is
something everybody uses every day but I
can't tell you how the protocol operates
TCP so that's what mainstream option is
going to look like for cryptocurrencies
and blockchain networks you mentioned
oauth I know why that's important but
could you just again like elevator pitch
very Elementary level what that means
why accounts abstraction is so important
and how anybody who is just kind of
Technology simple I guess is the best
way to put it we'll be able to use these
networks when I think about wallets in
general like self-custody is the future
we should all strive to have
self-custody definitely the original
crypto tenants that I think we should
all keep near and dear and that's very
important so like with that is the
premise of not trying to lean into some
of the technologies that would get rid
of self-custody when you think about
account abstraction most folks have
encountered like the dreaded seed phrase
if you will which is you know these 12
words and it's really strange and you've
never seen anything like that previously
in your life and you get some of these
really cryptic warnings that are like
hey if you don't save this all your
money's gone there's nothing we can do
to help you and that in and of itself is
a very scary consumer experience that
like we're just not used to we're used
to forget password and I think if you're
to think about what was some of
coinbase's early competitive Advantage
is it was essentially forget password
for your posted wallet but again that
goes against some of the you know kind
of self-custody Nature and then on the
oau side oauth is log in with Facebook
Google Etc right and kind of the premise
here is can you make it as easy to get a
crypto wallet as you can log in with
Facebook or Google Etc and that's the
kind of level of consumer experience
that people are looking for and whether
or not it's an account abstract or other
mechanisms it's really making it really
approachable for everyone there's also
some cool pieces in terms of like
gasless transactions or no fee
transactions and that sort of stuff that
are also part of the spec yeah that's
really cool I would like to clarify that
the majority of our audience is probably
quite technical but every now and then
like I have friends and family who
listen and sometimes they say like whoa
that went over my head so I appreciate
the Eli 5 kind of breaking it down and
you touched on a few key themes that I
really want to pull out of this
conversation you're talking about
account abstraction you're talking about
self-custody these very important things
that decentralized networks and owning
our own identity can offer us owning our
own identity data access to digital
assets and the such so you were working
in coinbase a behemoth of a centralized
institution and the blockchain space and
you left you took a chance on a scrappy
Dow that's building a blockchain network
so I think there are probably some
hardcore crypto ethos that maybe kind of
Drew you away from coinbase so can you
just walk us through what that was like
that process for you to say I want to
leave coinbase where I'm working in the
engineering space that I really enjoy
this was the place I wanted to be and to
kind of jump and become an initial
contributor to Cordell yeah I'm happy to
so I think when I characterized some of
the things that brought me from coinbase
over the course One Core has an amazing
team of you know 40 contributors all
around the world who I love work working
with you know every single day but it
was also this kind of shift from seeing
web two and a half very closely and
wanting to get really into web 3. and
that sounds a little trite from what
people say but now having experienced
both they really are quite different and
they have their own host of challenges I
think one of my kind of superpowers at
the moment is being able to have seen
both and kind of understanding how these
things interact together because there's
so much to learn from both sides but
that was definitely what the driver was
was that I think there was so much more
that I think could be done with crypto
and I thought doing that on the issuer
side was the path towards much higher
amount of impact in the shortest period
of time and I think that's something
that's very ideological like very
important to me is when I think back on
like what was the original use case of
Bitcoin and this sort of thing you know
10 years or 15 years ago now it's like
helping people in centralized
potentially authoritarian governments
it's unstable currencies like it's
really doing that sort of help and
there's six billion people that have you
know mobile phone subscriptions out
there and there's you know 100 million
people that have ever you know had a
wall and it's like as an industry like
regardless of what blockchain you know
people's favorites are we haven't
penetrated that at all there's just so
so much work to be done and a lot of the
centralized exchanges have the biggest
footprint by far but they're not quite
going after maybe exactly the same
things as some of the projects are yeah
that's really cool that you bring that
up and so I want to talk about the
blockchain trilemma and I think that
some of the things that people can
relate to is the housing trilemma when
we're going out to buy a house there are
three things you can have space you can
have location to amenities and you can
have cost trade what you want and you
only take two out of the three so
blockchain's trilemma is scalability
decentralization and security and such a
nascent technological industry that
we're in right now each of these
trade-offs has some things that are
really difficult to deal with so when
you were looking at going into the space
and what project you should work at how
how did you take this trilemma into your
perspective when deciding to finally
land at core yeah so I think the
trilemma is very interesting it's kind
of been popularized many times over the
past five years in particular and when
the trilemma is discussed I think it
really needs to be held true that all
three points of the triangle if you will
which is how it's commonly depicted are
equally important if you look back on
most major problems that have launched
since you know 2017 Etc they've all been
willing to compromise on one aspect and
that's been decentralization and it's in
favor of scalability like if we think
about the TPS Wars and all that stuff
over the last you know five plus years
that's been part of the triangle that's
always come in and cordell's viewpoint
on that that I you know is very aligned
with was that that's the only thing you
can't trade off and you can't trade off
any of them but being able to compromise
into centralization is so difficult
because all of a sudden you're really
not that Unstoppable uncensorable
technology that you need to be to really
hit the scale of what the overall
industry really needs to achieve and
that's actually why Cordell part of the
consensus mechanism comes from proof of
work and that proof of work is bitcoin's
proof of work that gets brought over in
this trustless relay mechanism because
Bitcoin is likely always will be the
most decentralized Network and when we
talk about the powering from Bitcoin
well over 40 percent of the Bitcoin
network is already delegating their
blocks to core we've started to figure
out some of that incentive alignment and
there's a lot lot of work still to be
done there but that decentralization
really is Paramount to the Cordell into
the community yeah that's really cool so
something that is really intriguing
about core Dao is this multi-proof of
work proof of stake consensus mechanism
so before we go into specifically what
Satoshi plus is maybe can you just share
with our listeners in your perspective
what are the strengths and weaknesses of
proof of work and proof of stake oh man
I'm gonna get all the Maxes on all sides
all Angry so I think at like a very very
high level right on the proof of work
side you've got you know extreme
security and the highest levels of
security they are and energy is what's
the input there as to part of the the
production Etc but on the large
trade-off and large con if you will is
the scalability function that comes with
that and then on the other side you've
got proof of stake and again there's
different different varieties of proof
of stake but let's call it like the
common variety of proof of stag is
you've got higher amounts of scalability
but maybe more sense visualization and
you also don't have this use of energy
as what's valuing the creation of blocks
so each has its own religious elements
if you will on both sides but none of
them are perfect right like each has
different trade-offs and in crypto
what's happened historically kind of one
of two camps which is either if it's not
perfect like we shouldn't use anything
and like Why Try it all and then on the
other side you've got like no mine is
better and yours is terrible and we've
seen kind of that proliferate I think
we're going to start to see more and
more groups like core that are actually
saying no there's benefits to all of
these and let's take the good parts and
kind of slam them together and build
these hybrid mechanisms that allow us to
address some of the trade-offs and
weaknesses very similar to what you see
in web 2 right like when you think about
web 2 most of the technology starts in
one place gets refined in another play
like that's just how kind of these
Evolutions operate and it's very odd
that in you know web 3 for the last like
10 years or so whatever there's a lot of
like not a vented hair syndrome which is
really I think for some of the evolution
in the space yeah one of my things that
I'm really proud of politically speaking
is that I piss off the left and the
right so I must be thinking accurately
and you brought this up so I'm wondering
if indeed you say it in Jess but has
core Dao managed to kind of piss off the
Maxis in both camps because from my
perspective that probably means that the
team is walking the correct line that's
a really difficult question to answer
I'd say as of now like we're doing a
decent job of staying in the middle for
what it is and I think like overall
crypto is like loud as some of these
folks are on Twitter I think we're
starting to see maxism like die off a
little bit in a healthy way and I think
had core launched at a different time I
think it would have gotten a lot more
Maxi attention than it currently has and
I think what we're also seeing is some
of these like former Maxis starting to
be able to see the longer term picture
and I think a great example of that is
the mining hash that's currently on core
which is again around you know 40
percent a lot of those folks were die
hard bitcoiners for a very long time
that are now actually asking questions
like oh maybe if you have other
exogenous funding sources it allows us
to invest more in Bitcoin like as long
as these aren't opposing forces and
having had many of those conversations
these different groups like you'd be
surprised at how many of these folks
actually have much wider apertures than
you know might be immediately apparent
on Twitter yeah and so I'm curious if
like the addition of like support for
ordinals earlier in the year has kind of
increased the rate at which these
conversations with the converted you're
having couldn't agree more I used that
example very frequently I think whether
you view BRC 20s or ordinals as truly
things that will help keep Bitcoin be
able to survive on just transaction fees
or whatever is like a different question
but I think what that was really showing
was people want more utility out of
Bitcoin and it's like there's hundreds
of billions in latent assets that are
waiting to be used whether it's in like
some sort of Bitcoin Centric D5 product
or on a chain like core like there's so
much opportunity there but I do think
that helped break down the wall and like
I give a lot of credit to the people
that figured out how to make Tap Root do
that if you will because it helps
convert a lot of formerly like staunch
people to say wait a second Bitcoin
allows this you know we're not adding
new things to bitcoin to support these
use cases and historically that's been
like that fine line right where it's
like adding to bitcoin is very very
difficult it's an ossified base layer
which in many ways I think is correct
but I think that really was kind of like
this Cambrian explosion if you will yeah
I agree you know we're seeing nft
projects migrate over to bitcoin because
they can now and when I was at eat
Denver earlier this year I'm not like
sitting here saying that you know
taproot's Gonna Save the Bitcoin network
but we are viewing a having coming up
and that's going to put pressure on how
miners are going to be able to subsidize
their own costs and so at East Denver
earlier this year there were still a lot
of friction for developers to build on
the Bitcoin Network so they're about a
half a decade behind ethereum because
ethereum had smart contract
functionality baked in at the beginning
but this is kind of a philosophical cool
question that I want to pick your brain
about because I was having this
conversation the other day and like when
we think about technology we're
dependent on the companies that operate
them so like ring if I'm using ring so
that I can view who's ringing my
doorbell and make sure that I don't have
burglars coming to my house in the
middle of the night what happens if ring
goes out of business is my unit still
going to be operational am I still going
to be able to access all the videos that
ring had stored and when it comes to
like programming and protocols and
infrastructure I can't help but think of
programming languages that exist today
but nobody knows how to use them really
like COBOL so applying this logic to
proof of work and proof of stake are
these consensus mechanisms long-term
Protocols are these things that are
really going to be able to survive and
stand the test of time or are we still
kind of maybe in an iterative phase
where maybe we haven't found the right
consent this mechanism and the right
protocol that can indeed Outlast people
places things so I'm obviously biased
when I answer this question for everyone
at home but I think like Satoshi plus is
a good example of this Evolution where
it's trying to combine these amazing
Technologies in like a one plus one
equals three type scenario but I do
think proof of work and proof mistake
are here to stay I think they're both
ossified you'll see more and more
development and improvements what I
think is like General civil resistance
mechanism that they are like I don't
think they're going to go anywhere when
I think about blockchains generally
these protocols actually a lot of their
value is in shared state that is the
underlying value of a lot of these in
the products that they offer are
actually block space and over time like
block space will likely Trend more and
more towards like infinite right so I
think it's going to be pretty
interesting to watch that all develop as
time goes on but I think there's like a
social contract that has now been formed
that these ecosystems need to run
forever and maybe there will be some
interesting like consolidation or some
hybrids like things that will happen as
time goes on but I do think that's part
of like the social and Technical
contract at this point cool so I'm just
gonna go out on a limb and assume you
subscribe to the multi-chain thesis so
as you're thinking like this you know
there's going to be Bitcoin there's
going to be ethereum there's going to be
these Cosmos app chains there's going to
be core there's going to be tons and
tons of different blockchain networks
the vast array of these networks that
we're going to have in the future how
are these going to help solidify
blockchain as a space like don't we want
multiple networks not just one to rule
them all what's kind of your personal
opinion on this and then how does the
rest of the core Dow team members think
about this yeah so I think my people is
mostly aligned I'm sure there are some
outliers out there but in general the
Viewpoint is mostly that the space as
time goes on it's going to be a one of n
versus n of one like I think when I look
at most of the major chains out there I
don't necessarily expect most of them to
be the there you know 10 20 years from
now because I think a lot of these
haven't been approached which is much of
a long-term thesis which is what I think
is required I think again we've seen
amazing technological developments Etc
but I think as time goes on more and
more of that will get commoditized and I
think one of the biggest differentiators
will be community and then also will be
specialization like app chains are a
great example where like derivative
exchanges and Perpetual exchanges on top
of app change make a lot of sense
because you've got different guarantees
that you want to provide your users and
I think we'll see some specialization
that way but I think on the more general
purpose blockchain space it really does
become all about community and I think
we haven't seen anyone really hit
Community scale like ethereum definitely
has the the largest Advantage when it
comes to the amount of people that have
interacted with it Etc but if we think
of the overall population of the Earth
we haven't even scratched the surface
yet and I do think whether it's you know
10 years from now 20 years from now Etc
we will get there and if you think about
Facebook I mean Facebook I think just
crossed like three billion users or
something which is just unbelievable
like just kudos to those votes and it
took 20 years and I think that's kind of
the time scale with which we need to be
evaluating these things and it's you
know too early to say who's won or who's
lost yeah no I really appreciate that
and I want to take a side step because
we're both Americans operating in the
crypto and blockchain space here before
we jump further into Cordell so it's no
surprise to anybody who's been paying
attention to anything regulatory at all
this past year that there's been a
little bit of adversarial sort of
actions toward this industry possibly
for good reason because of 2022 and the
Shady actors and the collapses of other
blockchain networks so maybe we can talk
a little bit about the perspective of
what it's like to work in this industry
full-time here in the states when we're
talking about this brain drain that's
occurring because folks are being forced
to go offshore what's the regulatory
outlook for you here as a builder and
how has that changed from maybe the
types of conversations you were having
around the water cooler at coinbase
during the end of the previous bear so
I'd say there's definitely a common
theme I think that's gone from the
beginning of like my time there to today
which is regardless of what jurisdiction
numbers the us whether it's Europe and
wherever you're building everyone just
wants Clarity and I think we've seen
some interesting strides in the EU and
the UK recently and I think we'll
continue to see more clarity hopefully
develop and with that Clarity I think
operators around the world will be able
to figure out what rules they can play
by and what they have to adhere to and
that's really what folks want I think
the whole like Lawless crypto times of
you know your are pretty God at this
point and I don't think most people are
even yearning for that in any way shape
or form of course there are some people
out there that are but I think those are
pretty limited yeah absolutely so
Cordell you left coinbase I went through
something similar I was working for
various different governments I used to
be an urban planner I had a cushy
government salary job great benefits all
that stuff and then I jumped full time
into what we call web3 today and I had
to learn how to be an independent
contractor and all these things of my
own figure out how to take care of my
own health care figure out how to pay my
own taxes all of this stuff but now
we're seeing the Advent of Dao's like
Obelisk that act as co-ops that can
provide this sort of services that an HR
department would provide at like a
centralized corporate entity so for your
transition into Cordell what was that
like leaving a company that provided you
these benefits and then going into the
Dow and having to figure all this out
yourself did the DOW provide any support
for you did they provide any resources
are you guys collaborating with
independent entities here in the US to
help provide some of these benefits that
a centralized company might provide just
can you share a little bit more of what
that transition was like and how a
traditional worker can become a web 3
worker yeah so also just for clarity
Courthouse like Global Group of
contributors there's a few of us that
happen to be in the U.S but there is no
U.S presence it's actually totally ex-us
but when it comes to getting all the
pieces stood up I've now done this many
times with like several different
businesses and it's always a challenge
but it's definitely harder in web 3
because you don't have the same level of
infrastructure right like if you need
benefits and things like that you can't
just call Sequoia and some of these like
classic you know providers so it's
definitely challenging in that way what
I would say is like we've got an amazing
team and as part of that we all try to
work together to figure out how to make
it easy anything in general like one of
the simplifying factors that was
happened early on was just decision to
use stable coins for everything right
like it just made things much easier but
there's a whole bunch of unsolved
problems where the unfortunate answer is
well you'll just have to like remit
Voice or something for whatever this
cost in the real world because there
isn't a good way to like pay for health
insurance and that sort of thing we've
evaluated a lot of landscape of Dow
tooling providers and some of them are
truly phenomenal I think a lot of others
have kind of a ways to go but with
something that we're evaluating really
closely because we would love it to
solve our own problems if you would yeah
I mean I'm not affiliated with them at
all but opolis is really leading the way
here at least in the U.S with like Co-op
Based Services for web3 businesses and
individual contractors so that probably
is on your radar but we were talking
earlier that I remember my bread and
butter working on the Neo blockchain
I've been covering this ecosystem since
2018 and so I ask myself this question
all the time so I hope it doesn't come
off as sort of an attack or anything
like that but how do you view taking the
Herculean task of building a brand new
blockchain and gaining mass adoption my
perspective is is you know today you
gotta kind of be a little bit crazy to
launch a brand new blockchain because
for whatever supporters are out there it
is those Die Hard folks who are like
Bitcoin only ethereum only now we're
starting to see the Advent of EVMS and
evml2s and alternative networks that use
like cosmos-based sdks so we're seeing
this decentralization of decentralized
networks take effect but like what's
your perspective what gave you the
confidence to say I'm gonna go out there
and build this brand new blockchain
utilizing this revolutionary consensus
mechanism and we're just gonna go YOLO
crypto and try to make this happen I
don't know if that's why I describe it
I'd say there's a large group of
contributors versus like by blockchain
but that group of contributors really
kind of saw an opportunity if that makes
sense and it was to really be
reactionary to a lot of the stuff that
we had seen previously that you know
there was this appetite to do better so
one of the big differentiators with core
was it was entirely self-funded and that
was important because at launch there
was this desire to have a large group of
owners as users of the network not an
adversarial relationship between like
early folks and then you know the users
or whatever we hadn't seen that done
wrong in so many ways it was like that
was table Stakes another that we already
you know kind of chatted about was
making sure it was really decentralized
from day one that was so important
because again we've seen this trade-off
so many times and have that trade-off
you know just isn't good or a creative
long term and then the final piece which
was the other like kind of Gap in the
market if you will was that no one's
built a truly web to scale community and
that's the long term where you know at
least my personal view is where a lot of
the value will accrue is by who can
onboard in our case you know we're
trying to get to a billion that's a long
road but it's who can get there that's
really what's going to determine you
know kind of the long-term success of
these ecosystems and then finally I
think everyone on the core team has a
very deep belief in the true crypto
roots of like this is freedom preserving
technology there's so much power here
that we've barely scratched the surface
of and when I think about things that I
want to spend I guess now like the
second half of my career on if you will
it's only stuff that can really make a
dent in the universe there's not a lot
of opportunities out there where you can
confidently say if I fulfill my mission
which is just part of this overall
mission for Cordell that you know there
actually is some actual measurable
Improvement for the overall good and it
sounds really lofty but I think those
are kind of the size the opportunities
that I want to be attacking at this
point and then the core chain thinks
they can make a dent into yeah I mean
it's ethics that kind of brought me into
this field as well and the same thing
that interested me in urban planning is
I wanted to go into a space where I can
die and 200 years later something I
worked on can still be providing public
good and benefit to people and initially
I thought that the route to do that was
by planning cities and helping develop
urban areas but really onboarding and
banking the unbanked is something that
really kind of got me excited about the
crypto and blockchain space in general
so I really appreciate and empathy eyes
with hearing that ethos and being ethos
driven in that way so you did mention
that the network is decentralized and
decentralization is a spectrum
everything's a spectrum when it comes to
the blockchain space so what does that
look like for the core Network what is
decentralized are we talking like 50
validators or are we talking like
thousands of validators complete
distribution of the token developers
from all over the world various
different developer languages so that
the programming can be more robust what
are the various levels of
decentralization that core kind of
really Prides itself on and offers so
decentralization is definitely a
spectrum right and there's no perfect
answer to like are you decentralized or
are you not I think anyone would love to
build wave of magic wand and be able to
get that answer if you would but I think
I personally view it and this is where
the Dual consensus mechanisms get
interesting one side Cordell has
millions of stakers around the world
that are all participating and this is
why delegated proof of stake was chosen
versus you know like proof mistake or
something you'd see in ethereum or even
32 each where to some folks that is
nothing but in a large part of the world
that's an insurmountable sum and it's
making sure that everyone contribute
even if they have you know 0.1 core and
it's really important to just make sure
that everyone can participate because
that's how you get true representation
and to balance that out on the other
side you get the proof of the work which
is bringing over all the
decentralization of the Bitcoin miners
which again is like so important for
proof of work which is ensuring that
anyone can mine Bitcoin again
probabilistically the odds that you
produce a block are very low but in
aggregate of course that's why pools
exist Etc but that's really kind of the
balance of both sides and when the
validators get elected you actually look
at the Hybrid score that takes into
account the amount of delegated stake
and the amount of delegated hash and
that's our best answer as of yet of how
you blend the two together to ensure
that you're operating in a more
decentralized way and I'm sure more
ideas will come out here we'll continue
to refine like it's a very evolutionary
space but those are for some of the most
important tenants to building the system
yeah so does that mean that Satoshi plus
is actually a protocol that communicates
directly with the Bitcoin Network I
would assume that there is an evm
compatible sort of dpos protocol that
core has built on its own but is Satoshi
plus like specifically speaking with the
Bitcoin Network as part of its consensus
so we have an actor in our system called
relayers and what relayers do is they
run an on-chain Lite client and they
bring over the Bitcoin blocks the
Bitcoin blocks that are delegated have
some data written as part of the op
return field that says hey what do I
want my delegation to go and then where
do I want my fees to accru to they put
that into the Block in the Bitcoin chain
so you can actually see that on any
Bitcoin block Explorer the three layers
jobs to bring that over there's an actor
called verifiers that can see if
anyone's being malfeased if they are
they can of course slash the relayer but
that process runs on a one-week delay to
account for things like reorgs but there
is this direct tie-in where it's
relaying these things over and that's
how the data comes over in a trustless
fashion yeah that's really interesting
that you have kind of a built-in
week-long waiting period in case there
are any reorgs or maybe even adversarial
splits like we saw with the size Wars in
2015-16-17 so I'm wondering also if
reorgs are an issue what about block
times and finality how does Satoshi plus
take in the block times and finality of
Bitcoin and then also utilize the
quicker speeds at which dpos can offer
finality because it operates in the one
week delay of course bitcoin's
probabilistic finality but that's more
your past any sort of like reorg at that
point feasibly unless you maybe like
nation state attack or something of that
nature but the individual like producing
nine minutes or ten minutes or whatever
won't actually impact it because it just
brings over the delegated hash and like
most Engineers it's like this is the
solution that's kind of blunt but does
solve the problem in like pretty good
way in the same way that different
centralized exchanges just wait 30
blocks for ethereum it's like you don't
need to wait 30 blocks it's just an easy
answer to you know try to prevent some
of these nastier failure modes because
that's just an input into the system on
the dpos side as you rightly pointed out
you can be very performant right because
on that side you've got this group of
validators that can you know operate in
a classic kind of proof-of-stake fashion
which allows you to get to you know
hundreds of TPS Etc cool so are you guys
going out and speaking with Bitcoin hash
mining Farms are you speaking with
individual miners or collectives of
minors or are you just kind of tapping
into the network specifically what does
that relationship look like yeah so it's
been both inbound and outbound to be
totally clear but we talked mostly with
mining pools because the mining pools
are what actually produce the blocks of
most of these systems and those are our
main points of contact they've been
phenomenal to work with and one of the
again big differences with core with
some of these other networks is core
isn't merge Mining and a lot of these
scenarios you've actually seen these
adversarial relationships between like
the other L1 and Bitcoin emerge or like
a layer Etc that actually creates these
adversarial incentives for combining
pools Etc to censor you or to do all
these other things just kind of take
your rewards and what we've found so far
it's actually been a very symbiotic
relationship and we've seen more and
more hash rate come on as part of that
and we're continually looking to find
ways to get these mining pools more and
more involved awesome so we have the
participation of mining pools and then
on the consensus or governance
perspective there are two different
participants in the way I'm seeing it we
have the core token holders who vote on
the validators and then we have the
validators themselves who validate the
network and make sure that proper amount
of transactions were approved in the
previous block so we kind of touched on
this earlier but how many users does
core have how many people are actually
delegating their core to validators and
then also how many validators are on the
network so there's 21 validators as of
now however we expect that to expand as
time goes on and that was kind of like a
initial set that gives you some very
nice security properties in terms of the
number of stakers there's millions of
stakers around the world we expect that
number to continue to grow particularly
more and more wallets into great core
that's just a great onboarding funnel
and we've got amazing Partners like okay
X wallet mises wallet several others
that are all enabling course taking
directly from their app which is
fantastic because just this one click
and you're Off to the Races and that's
another one of the nice pieces of deboss
and then in terms of the number of users
users in web 3 is always tricky I'm a
big caveater because I you know don't
want to get accused of anything on the
internet but in terms of it it's similar
to around like a hundred thousand I
think daily active wallets last I
checked on core scan again we would love
to watch that continue to grow as your
audience Etc hopefully you know on board
through one of our amazing wallet
Partnerships yeah I appreciate the
caveat because people could just be
doing civil attacks and one person could
own a thousand wallets so it's always
nice to kind of call that out but I do
want to give a little bit of Praise
where it's due the Cordell Twitter
account is 1.9 million users which is a
ton so I'm really curious to hear
because I'm really interested in this
personally what was the community
building process like what is the sort
of philosophy that goes into cultivating
such a large community and how did the
team kind of get to these massive
amounts of users across various
different socials so I'd say it was a
multi-pronged approach one of which was
there was a partnership with the Satoshi
app and the Satoshi app was a web 2 app
that helped kind of get the core message
and the core story out it has the
ability to kind of grow in web 2 Space
versus web 3 space I would personally
expect to be something that more chains
will do as there's just so many more web
2 users than web 3 users out there and
that was really where it kind of began
was like kind of giving people the core
story talking about the ties into
Bitcoin and all of those things that are
so true and again if that piece was you
know more idea stage but a lot of that
was that Community Building to get the
group of True Believers like the
Thousand true fans if you will and then
that story like you know most things in
crypto start to move through the
community right and there's these
amazing networks all around the world of
people who hear this story and get
excited about things that could you know
potentially be the next Bitcoin or the
next ethereum or something that like has
these properties where you're not trying
to say you're better than everyone else
you're trying to say that there's this
awesome common ground that we can all
find to you know really unlock crypto's
True Value and that was something that
really resonated with people all over
the world and so far you know it's been
really exciting I think we're point zero
one percent of the way through like the
community building that we need to do
but I think when you look at the
strength of our you know 100 000 Discord
followers or millions of people on
Twitter there really is this deep level
of Engagement in people who are really
excited about building this community
that is very principled Orient did and
driven it's a real honor to be part of
that Community that's awesome based off
of what I gathered core launched mainnet
earlier this year maybe late last year
and there was also an airdrop that
happened earlier this year so how many
users were airdropped the core tokens
were you seeing a lot of this growth in
community before the airdrop before even
mainnet launched and people were really
buying into the vision or have you seen
that growth kind of explode since the
launch of mainnet and the airdrop and
now that we're starting to see a little
bit of activity on the network yeah so I
think like most new launches and that
sort of stuff you see lots and lots of
growth up into launch and then you see
kind of a little bit of the trough of
sorrow and then you continue to kind of
go up into the right type thing but as
part of it there was a lot of excitement
for the airdrop it was possibly the
biggest smart contract interaction of
its time when it first launched in
February of this year and there was
about two million addresses that were
part of this airdrop and it was done
simultaneously all around the world
which is again one of the beautiful
parts of the smart contract but it was
really cool for the users to get their
tokens in this way for the story they
had been you know hearing about and
trying to understand and now we're the
first owners of the network and I think
one of the most encouraging signs was
the amount of people that immediately
staked those tokens and a lot of those
folks are still staking those tokens
because there's that ethos alignment in
governance and all this potential value
of what the network can be the network
itself has done a great job so far but
there's so much work to be done and
you're seeing people with their Stakes
showing that long-term support yeah has
there been any sort of like governance
proposals put forth yet changing
parameters of how the network is
configured or anything like that or is
it still just kind of in the staking
phase right now so in the staking phase
as of now but that is something we
expect to see later this year cool cool
so launching a brand new network you
have a lot of users which is great
because now we can build dapps on top of
it and we can start having core
Believers using these decentralized
applications so what are kind of the
activities that are taking place in the
network and what are the kind of daps
that you're you're seeing right now so
we're seeing gaps of all shapes and
sizes I think one of the most
interesting areas that we're seeing
that's like some of these are in like
kind of the pre-launch but I've seen
quite a few of them come across or a lot
of games and the games are super
exciting because like these are actually
fun web 2 games that people are adding
crypto pieces to versus the opposite
which are like game fine whatever else
which are interesting a lot of ways but
I don't think are usually amazing user
experiences and in some of the pilots
that they're running with the community
they've been like very successful so
it's really excited to watch that I
think there'll be some pretty cool
launches later this year I think a lot
of the on-chain activities it's not
staking Etc so far is in some of these
early D5 protocols one of the cool
things that you know as this podcast is
now released is Sushi swap actually just
launched on core as well as the first
borrow n Aquarius we're actually
starting to see a lot of those
fundamental Lego blocks come into place
in those Lego blocks then allow all the
other cool kind of D5 Primitives to then
launch on top and it's been awesome
watching that and one of the things that
the core Community doesn't different is
we also have the Core Academy which is
trying to educate users on how to
interact with these protocols what are
the risks Associated like what should
you understand before you get involved
and that's really important to be able
to educate the community when we look at
it holistically the participation rate
is a function of like they're getting
ready and understanding and that's
actually really important as like a are
we helping to serve our community
absolutely and I think that's really
cool to just kind of acknowledge that
we're starting to see the Lego blocks
that will eventually be used for this
composability to build out other D Phi
nft you name it Dow type of activities
moving forward so I'm wondering as we
wrap up if you could share a little bit
more about the Satoshi mining app I have
a note here that I just wanted to hear
about it because it was interesting
while I was digging into the things that
core is all about yes the tissue mining
app I think the way to think about it is
like a news aggregate or price checker
Etc and also it's kind of like these
airdrop platform mechanics built into it
is kind of the way to think about it and
core was really the two work hand in
hand to kind of Define the product and
the solution if you would to like go
together and that's why it was pretty
critical in Satoshi app core you can see
how there is like kind of some relation
there but that was definitely part of
the initial Community all morning yeah
so something that has become very
apparent to me working in a blockchain
ecosystem that isn't evml2 is that once
you lose access to a bridge or
centralized exchanges then as an
ecosystem you're very much isolated so
how is core taking this into account
what are the ways in which core is
trying to bridge to other networks to
increase and Implement interoperability
into the way that the protocol operates
and into a way that people can come in
and out of the ecosystem via crypto or
blockchain rails so I'm definitely a big
believer in the multi-chain thesis and
this is something that as an ecosystem
was always very important and one of the
first Partnerships that Dow did was
actually with layer zero because that
was so important to be able to
trustlessly communicate across different
networks and shortly after mainnet the
chain actually put out its official
bridge that had connectivity into
ethereum and BNB and I believe others
you know are going to get added soon but
it's very important to be able to you
know have this interrupt between the two
chains because again the multi-chained
future I personally think is you know
what will play out yeah absolutely so
kind of wrapping up are there any
upcoming plans for Cordell for developer
oriented marketing initiatives are there
going to be any hackathons what are the
sort of outrage you're doing to onboard
new devs and bring new Builders into the
ecosystem phenomenal question for new
devs definitely check out cordow.org
there's a whole bunch of documentation
and give us plenty of feedback and
anything that we're missing but there
really is tons of great stuff over there
the team will have presents that pretty
much every major crypto conference this
year green blockchain rights the
remainder of the Year cream blockchain
week token 24.9 from mission list I'm
sorry mate now like you name it'll be
folks there from core and at some of
these throughout the later parts of the
year I do believe we plan to run
hackathons that is one of the areas that
is what we think you know one of the
most decreative to ecosystem building
and you know very very excited to meet
more builders that way I'd also give a
quick plug to our ecosystem
collaboration with bitget and Mexi which
is designed to help Builders from all
around the world not just in terms of
funding but in terms of resourcing
hiring Etc to help bring their projects
to Market launching on core is very
different than launching on some of
these other chains where you know
there's not as many users or people
actually interacting and for a lot of
these developers they want to launch
somewhere where people can actually use
what they're building first is just
build amazing technology and we think
that's one of the big differentiators
and we invite all developers to come
check it out cool shout out to Maxie we
had one of the heads of their r d
development program over on the podcast
so you're in good company with fellow
alumnus so beyond developers that you
and your community are clearly catering
towards whatever are some other types of
projects or folks that you're interested
in hearing from so I say this truly is
like I would like to personally hear
from everyone I mean there's so many
amazing projects out there and I can't
possibly foresee you know the amazing
things that people are building if I
could you know it'd be awesome but
unfortunately I can't but it's like as a
community it's very welcoming to all
different projects and Builders of all
around the world as well as users and
again it's not just builders that you
know the courthouse is trying to attract
it's trying to get people from all over
the world that want to participate in
this whole community so it really is
like trying to be as inclusive as
possible and there's just so many things
out there that we're all excited to see
so how can people keep up to date with
you or reach out to you or if they maybe
want to just reach out to core Dao in
general what's the best way to do so yes
you can always get to me on Twitter or
on Discord and our Discord is very
active it's several hundred thousand
folks now and there's so many
interesting discussions going on as well
as the great way to find other
interesting gaps because is a lot of
them will have their own channels Etc so
it creates a nice like jumping off point
into like really getting involved and
then of course starting with the white
paper to kind of understand all the
technology is also a good use of focus
time perfect Rich it was awesome to
spend an hour chatting with you I love
communicating with Builders who are
building from the ground up in brand new
ecosystems and definitely support the
vision and can empathize with the hustle
and grind that it takes to get that done
so thanks for sharing an hour with us it
was awesome to hear your insights and
perspectives and really can't wait to
keep looking forward and keeping my ear
to the ground to see the cool activity
that continues to grow on the core
Network thanks again for having me and
thanks for listening cheers
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was really
interesting to hear about cordell's
dedication to building a community that
the airdrop earlier this year was among
the largest smart contract interactions
that have ever taken place on ethereum
with more than 2 million plus it was
great to hear that so many of those
airdrops went directly to staking to
validate our nodes on the network I also
enjoyed touching upon the blockchain
trilemma and learning more about how
core Dao favors utmost decentralization
and the consensus mechanism and it was
really cool to hear more about how rich
saw how the meat was made inside of
coinbase but he opted to build toward
his vision in a more decentralized
manner with that I want to thank you so
much for taking the time to listen to
the smart economy podcast if you liked
what you heard and want to support the
show please keep Neo news today in mind
when voting for your Neo council member
as part of Neo's governance process we
appreciate you and look forward to
catching you next time
[Music]
thank you
foreign